---
x-trestle-add-props: []
  # Add or modify control properties here
  # Properties may be at the control or part level
  # Add control level properties like this:
  #   - name: ac1_new_prop
  #     value: new property value
  #
  # Add properties to a statement part like this, where "b." is the label of the target statement part
  #   - name: ac1_new_prop
  #     value: new property value
  #     smt-part: b.
  #
x-trestle-set-params:
  # You may set values for parameters in the assembled SSP by adding
  #
  # ssp-values:
  #   - value 1
  #   - value 2
  #
  # below a section of values:
  # The values list refers to the values in the resolved profile catalog, and the ssp-values represent new values
  # to be placed in SetParameters of the SSP.
  #
  sa-22_odp.01:
    alt-identifier: sa-22_prm_1
    profile-values:
      - <REPLACE_ME>
    profile-param-value-origin: <REPLACE_ME>
  sa-22_odp.02:
    alt-identifier: sa-22_prm_2
    profile-values:
      - <REPLACE_ME>
    profile-param-value-origin: <REPLACE_ME>
x-trestle-global:
  profile:
    title: FedRAMP Moderate Baseline (NIST 800-53 Rev5)
    href: trestle://profiles/FedRAMP-Rev5-Moderate/profile.json
  sort-id: sa-22
---

# sa-22 - \[System and Services Acquisition\] Unsupported System Components

## Control Statement

- \[a.\] Replace system components when support for the components is no longer available from the developer, vendor, or manufacturer; or

- \[b.\] Provide the following options for alternative sources for continued support for unsupported components [Selection (one or more): in-house support; [support from external providers]].

## Control Assessment Objective

- \[SA-22a.\] system components are replaced when support for the components is no longer available from the developer, vendor, or manufacturer;

- \[SA-22b.\] [Selection (one or more): in-house support; [support from external providers]] provide options for alternative sources for continued support for unsupported components.

## Control guidance

Support for system components includes software patches, firmware updates, replacement parts, and maintenance contracts. An example of unsupported components includes when vendors no longer provide critical software patches or product updates, which can result in an opportunity for adversaries to exploit weaknesses in the installed components. Exceptions to replacing unsupported system components include systems that provide critical mission or business capabilities where newer technologies are not available or where the systems are so isolated that installing replacement components is not an option.

Alternative sources for support address the need to provide continued support for system components that are no longer supported by the original manufacturers, developers, or vendors when such components remain essential to organizational mission and business functions. If necessary, organizations can establish in-house support by developing customized patches for critical software components or, alternatively, obtain the services of external providers who provide ongoing support for the designated unsupported components through contractual relationships. Such contractual relationships can include open-source software value-added vendors. The increased risk of using unsupported system components can be mitigated, for example, by prohibiting the connection of such components to public or uncontrolled networks, or implementing other forms of isolation.

______________________________________________________________________

## What is the solution and how is it implemented?

<!-- For implementation status enter one of: implemented, partial, planned, alternative, not-applicable -->

<!-- Note that the list of rules under ### Rules: is read-only and changes will not be captured after assembly to JSON -->

### This System

<!-- Add implementation prose for the main This System component for control: sa-22 -->

#### Implementation Status: planned

______________________________________________________________________
